I thought I'd go over what should be considered questionable connections I've made within the Bible and Quran.

Although I admit I was just fishing around for a good way to fill out my AI story, I migrated the plot to the point where the archaeological part became secondary or largely irrelevant.

I had originally set out to write a truthy near-term prediction book, but current events kept shifting the playing field so rapidly, especially with the completely disproportionate response (I predicted, but Lord have mercy!) in the Gaza incursion + Greater Israel project.

There's a degree of leveling-up that Fox News folks aren't mostly ready for, and not really anyone who still consumes any corporate news at all.

The next tier is the influencers, who evolve into paid promotion of geo-political interests, because nobody likes commercials.  So we move to a subscription model that helps us filter a little bit.

But I've dropped as many as I've supported, and those that are still able to speak their own truth and guide their own attention are few and far between.

Because truth is what the powers and principalities are most afraid of.  We like to believe that those involved in authoritative positions in government, especially those who are on our team, are perfect angels.

That's not how we'd put it, but we have to believe that our people are the good guys, and that is as blind a faith as any in this world.  But this is convenient, since those personalities that burn out or are exposed for being sinful humans, are quickly replaced by new up-and-comers who climb atop the stacks of the lynched to tempt their own demise.

How all these cycles and patterns imbue our existence, is not entirely a by-product of human nature, it is a leveraging of human nature towards its own subjugation and autogenocide by those who understand it and have generated entire religions based on the advantages that our sinful nature can bring them.

I've just had one of those moments of deja vu, and I was about to say that I don't care what you call them, because they go by many names.  There is something more fundamental than that underneath the names, which are generally part of the programming.

It's  like the paradoxes of unity.  If I "organize" or help "bring together" and "unify around" something, what is happening is that I am cloaking separatism by calling it unity.  As so as we Us and Them, we think we've separated the sheep and the goats.  That in itself is claiming something that is God's.

So we do this sort of thing without thinking about it at all, because there is no over-arching worldview that most have that isn't a counterfiet of something Holy, and rebellious by nature.  We try to cordon off the God stuff to a specific day.  Church is what comes before Football.

We many have the idea of what the Sabbath is by Jews and Torah, rather than what Jesus taught us about the Sabbath in the New Covenant.

Same about Israel.  Same of the position of the Law.  We think these are minor doctrinal differences or days of observances, and traditions.  But it's not.  It is much more than that.

Here's a strange instance.  Ever wonder why Christians are surrounded by Black Cube religions?  Jews and Muslims?

Also legalistic diet restrictions that are more similar each other than Christianity?

That those most married to the verbatim text of scriptures are even counting among themselves those who, for instance, practically worship a specific English translation?  That all these are closer to each other than they are to Orthodox Catholic Christianity?

Those that like to discover secret codes written into the sequences of letters and words themselves?

The Bible is miraculous, no doubt.  But we gain faith by the hearing of the Gospel, sourced from reliable Scriptures.

What becomes most interesting to me is that "letter of the law" types are more likely to be more "Torah-observant" of the Christians, susceptible to Judaizing, and the sorts of heresies that lead to, like the Jews, a pre-occupation with End Times forecasting and numeralogical "dispensations" etc.

Thing is, I don't necessarily deny a lot of that stuff.  But they don't seem to lead me closer to God.  Reading the Scriptures does, because the Bible deftly destroys heresies, even the ones that believe it like unto Allah or something.

What I'm saying is that I have tendencies towards all of that "to the letter" -ism.  The Bible is Perfect, no matter the list of books you have in it.

It's a big handicap if one doesn't have at least a tentative grasp on the Scriptures.  It's not easy to get there.  It helps if you have good teachers.

And Jesus was the best, and Paul and the whole gang.  Perfect execution under the circumstances, and the Gospel was blasted out with supernatural meme energy the likes of which the world had never seen.

So when I went to the Bible to look up some ideas about stories from the Bible that were maybe off the beaten path, I had kept "Josiah" in my mind for months as someone I didn't really remember, and that I should look up.  I was out of town working crazy hours in a job literally stirring cow shit, so wasn't in a position that it came to mind while I could look it up on my phone.

But it stuck.  I looked up the Josiah and was very pleased, because there was this perfect scenario for a 600 BC versus 600 CE (Christian Era) and the Josiah story and the Muhammad story could be played by a similar, interesting cast of characters, which contained Huldah, the prophetess, and Shaphan the scribe.

I was looking for an excuse to do my exegesis of the Quran but into a story.  I was imagining an ensemble of mainly teen characters but that they would play characters on different timelines that I'd hope would be able to show how prefigurement and typology and use of the Scriptures as analogy material is incredibly fruitful once one has a solid grasp of the principles.

I thought that the most controversial thing I'd likely get into is that I was going to use the 2 Kings 22 as a prophecy of something that occurred during the time of Muhammad, and that in 2032, we'd make a discovery of Muhammad-related material that was like finding the book of the Law that had been lost in the Temple.  That was my loose scheme.

So that was a close to the Bible as I was really going to get, except that the idea of an Arabic translation of John by Muhammad or a close scribe I thought would help settle some debates.

But after research, I realized that the more I try to make up something that brushes up against the Bible, then I automatically inherit the whole tradition.

And that was what the Quran was doing, too, by talking about all these people from the Bible.  I wasn't really going to be able to get into it without going pretty deep into both the Quran and the Bible.

But I wanted to write about AI and "What would Jesus do?" and the old "Everything points to Jesus" ended up being what I was getting out of the Quran.  But that wasn't what I was supposedly supposed to be getting.

I couldn't shake the fact that there was the Masoretic versus the Septuagint theme happening, and it wasn't even subtle.  Some verses had so many bracketed new-fact insertions and glossing over of the underlying Arabic.  No wonder nobody could figure out what it meant.  It was supposed to be that way.

It was a recitation.  It was a sort of liturgy.  A performance.  There was no mosque at the time Muhammad started these recitations of what was given him by Jibreel.

The Quran, the more I read, the more it seemed like an elaborate inside joke.  That it was an IQ test, and you can tell if you passed by whether or not you were a Muslim when you finished it.

I "passed" the IQ test in 2001 in a little cafe on Douglas in Wichita which I first remember holding a Quran in my hand.  Fortunately it was in English, but it didn't take me long to spot big problems.  I had read what I considered to be words inspired by God.  These words were not those.  Not even close.

I had written Muslims and Jews off that long ago, knowing that they both felt like they were being made into that weird "scapegoat" thing.  But people forget the scapegoat is set free in the old Law.  I wasn't ready to let anyone off the hook for 9/11.  Very likely we were all to blame at some level, but the initial believability of anything about that day and time and the results left me essentially silent about what I perceived.  I didn't know what I thought other than it was so bathed in occultism and obfuscation that none of it could really be believed.

It simply got my attention in a way I've never forgotten.  Any skepticism of what I was being told that I may have had were cemented in.

Zbigniew Brzezinski said, and I listened to it a hundred times:

>I'm deeply troubled, by a very vague, emotionally-stated, semi-theologically defined diagnosis of the central global menace is obscuring our national ability to comprehend the historically unprecedented challenge which is being posed in our time by a massive global political awakening, and thus is obstructing our ability to deal effectively with the global political turmoil that this awakening is generating.

So that was what being "woke" was back in the day (mid 2000's).  But now it's inverted, of course.  I didn't ever have to follow a rabbit hole very far to figure out where it led to.

But that was a gift of my small town growing up experience, where I learned about the New Age movement and its offshoots and variants and about the New World Order and such like and so forth, and even how Catholics might be wrong about some things.  I have no idea about the deeper theology of any of the participants in my going-to-where-the-pretty-girls-are methodology for studying these sorts of things, as well as the education that my Methodist Church gave me on these topics.  Fortunately I was raised a perfectly generic Protestant that had at least tried to maintain some high church dignity, if not the Old Church majesty or liturgy.

But what grace Methodism may have been due, was erased as the stark difference between the "Open Doors" policy of Methodists, versus the months or even years of preparation to enter the Church.  Now my Church is a Rainbow (inversion) church, and worse.  I have not put myself into it, so as not to bring dissention to my mother and grandmother and great-grandmother's Church. 

I'm quite a ways off the reservation at this point, and there is no way that annual conferences will be able to manage what is coming.

This is arguably the most studied Muslim apologist on the planet.  But he knows his enemy on that front and so this is how he addresses them:  https://youtube.com/clip/Ugkx0wttu_exTa1OeSVsXtph5QUBGMW6t1vk?si=rcr0FbV5XeZmEO-a

This is a problems for the pearl clutchers and the tone police and the feminized Prot who is more concerned with feelings than the fights being had.

Q21:5 "No!" They say, "Chaotic dreams! No! Fantasy! No! He is a mad poet! Let him bring us a sign, like prophets do."

For the first couple of years at least, Muhammad didn't publicly bring the verses that would become the Quran.  He kept it friends and family.

The most recent scholarship I've come across is that the extent and specific varieties of Orthodox Christianity that were active in and around Arabia show a proportion as high as 75% Christian, with nearly complete acceptance of a god that is the creator god that is above all the other gods.  This may have been where Asharah moving from consorts of the god to daughters of the god.

To me, this completes the cycle, as these three, which I say is the distant echo of the Three Mothers by Abraham, who were certainly not consorts of God, but his children, like we who believe in His Son being adopted sons and daughters of God, which is part of the New Covenant.

This is the sort of thing that I kept uncovering.  Asherah I just snatched out of the air as being something that I might be able to appropriate for my story.  I didn't want to revive any ancient cults, and my OT flourishes were for an example at how rich an Arabic tradition is available in the Old stories, especially once one realizes that we still have likely too much deference to the way the stories are told.

https://youtu.be/qj1yBtcWYoo?t=1436 listen to those guys a while to get an idea of what the most tepid (IMO) explication of the Quran as both having a theatrical structure and language that references ancient typologies of Christians and Jews.  I'm not making this stuff up, I figured out.

My instincts have been very straightforward to find evidence and experts who have started down the paths that I've been sprinting down.

I can do that, because I'm just a nobody, not someone whose job depends on treading gently.

But I should list those things I can think of off the top of my head that may be new to folks:

1.  I say Petra was the original Mecca.  At least it shows up on maps and had a history.  I believe that Petra is mentioned and Arabia and Paul are mentioned and that Egypt and John with the water rituals and clothes and foods considered unclean.  Once I noticed that there was growing evidence that Petra might have been the original Mecca, I thought I'd take that as the center of my epic, and that brought everything right to the edge of where the history of the three traditions largely played out.  The existence of Aaron's tomb and a Byzantine monastery and the whole story of the place being largely forgotten for centuries.

As such, it wasn't really on anyone's radar, and moving the ZamZam well to modern Mecca makes sense.  Closer to the desalination plants (joke).

2.  I say that Abraham-Isaac-Jacob were not the only Yahweh worshipers, or people that God looked after.  Archaeology and inscriptions are telling us that especially towards Arabia, there were Asharah "cults" that worshipped "Yahweh. . .and His Asharah"  So that was wild for me to snatch out of the air for something that I could integrate into my ancient God of Abraham faith I was imagining for Muhammad's people.  Petra was close enough to where we think Abraham lived, and so the likelihood that Abraham himself could have been involved with young Ishmael like Islam thinks.

3.  I "considered the ravens" and followed them back to Noah.  Nobody talks much about what the Raven and then the Dove means.  We get the olive branch stuff.  But the Raven keeps coming back, and doing things that serve God.  So now I was gathering a pretty nice list of what a Raven branch of the Noahide covenant, that were outside the Mosaic covenant, but not the main story.

4.  Everyone, for some reason, wants to write themselves into the Old Covenant by claiming that they are of the bloodlines of the tribes of Israel.  But that is an obvious trap to me.  Ask the Black Hebrew Israelites.  Muslims have done the same thing, wanting to substitute Ishmael for Isaac since the Quran doesn't exactly specify.  It is better to let all the Books say what they say.  Ishmael is special, and the firstborn and even first circumcized.  Abraham exhoted the Lord to let the Covenant be through Ishmael.  That's not what God had in mind.

But years later, Sarah didn't like how Ishmael treated little Isaac, so the Lord told Abraham to send Hagar and Ishmael away.  But the Lord took care of them, and the descendents of Ishmael.  Genesis 25 and later in I Chronicles, we have the Noah-Shem-Abraham, and then the Abraham, Ishmael, (Nebaioth; then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 30Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema, 31Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah.) and the Abraham, (32Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan. 33And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these [are] the sons of Keturah.)

So now we have a great number of those who are fully Abraham's seed, and both Esau and Moses married into these tribes.

Now Israel always thinks everyone is against them.  Recall Jacob and Esau reuniting and how much of an anti-climax that was.  If there were Yahweh worshipers (not Canaanite!) that Esau had joined his destiny to, it seemed to have made him better adjusted and full of forgiveness, while his brother treated him like some angry god to appease before having to confront.

And didn't he wrestle with God all night?  Good lesson in there.  Also good lessons about the persistent nature of the Jews to this day.

So now I've gathered Noah, Shem, Ishmael, Esau, Jethro, Moses and Aaron to the table, without a single theme except exploring the also-rans that Muhammad believed he had kinship with.  And once you've associated your kin with Moses, you're in, as it were.

But by that time, many generations had passed, and it seemed that Jethro's people, the Midians, had already been administrating a hierarchical ecclesiastical structure, where problems were dealt with as much as possible from the edge.

Islam should have siezed on Jethro as a proto-Moses, and also that there was already a tradition that had laws that had descended from the seed of Abraham through Keturah.

That would have been the opportunity to accept the previous scripture.  By denying it, someone else could have seen what I am seeing long, long ago.

That there is a plain raven-dove distinction, that Ishmael-Isaac, Esau-Jacob, Jethro-Moses theme that continues to pop up throughout the rest of the OT.

One of the modern distinctions I thought I'd like to concentrate on was the distinction between Man and Woman.  And a revisiting of the monogamy versus polygamy or polygeny or whatever.  Broken families.  To me, Islam couldn't be true because of its treatment of the Sacrement of Marriage.

So since I was making up this Raven tradition, that broke off at Exodus 19, and took on Moses' sons, following the tradition of not entering the promised land.  Which may well have explained some of the later geopolitical interactions.

When the Torah and the rest were being written, it was the story about Christ.  Then the New Testament came as the story of Christ.

The Quran came to me, and I thought it was about Christ.  But like Michael Heiser would key off of was the weird stuff.  The so-called Satanic Verses are the example I went with by default.  Because the fact that Satan didn't even know what was going on when Christ was being crucified.  None of the disciples had any clue what was going on, except the Marys and maybe John.

This total ascension to a New Covenant, in my estimation, were better tracked by the Ravens, who had been taught by their veneration of the Mothers of the promise, of whom Mary was promised them.  Not by bloodline, but by Spirit.  Paul came back from Arabia and told us about:

16[This] I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh. 17For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. 18But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law. 19Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are [these]; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, 20Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, 21Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told [you] in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. 22But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, 23Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law. 24And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. 

"But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law." and the Flesh versus Spirit.  So I went looking for Wisdom and the like in the Old Testament, and imagined what the Raven-Spirit-Water traditions would be like compared to the Dove-Flesh-Blood idea.  If the split is at Exodus 18, since 19 is when Moses receives the law for Israel.  If Israel is to be Holy, a set-apart, Chosen people, they would need to show God they could obey his strictures, for we are creating the flesh tabernacle of the Messiah.

But this flesh covenant would be fulfilled, and the new Spirit covenant had been decreed.  I thought it wasn't a great stretch to have this proto-Spirit religion being practiced by the Raven seed.  One that developed essentially independent of the flesh covenant, but whose practices, laws and such were closer to what Jesus preached.  Matthew 5 is full of it, for example.  

Jesus spent some time explaining where the old Law was not enough for a truly Holy people, that there was a Spirit behind the Law that was not being served by the Jews at the time.  We found out that if we learned this streamlined and highly-tuned Spirit Law, then we didn't need the Old Law at all.

Yet we see many who call themselves Christians or something similar running back to the Old ways like Jesus Christ didn't actually mean what He said.  It was not only highly refined, but superior in every way, freeing man from the slavery of the Law.

But Hagar is usually considered the slave woman and Sarah the free, but Jesus Christ turned that around, IMO.  Hagar represented the Freedom in the Spirit, that can glorify God by teaching that to even look lustfully upon a woman is to commit adultery with her in one's heart.

Hagar named God El Roi, the God Who Sees.  The One who saw her and her child and their plight and responded.

This wandering eye was what captured David, and so how I also brought the Psalms 50/51 in Aramaic/Syriac, which is proto-Arabic, really, the Arabic coming after ink became more widely used as mainly a cursive derivative.

5. That Woman was not well-enough represented in the times since Christ, and Islam was a regression, and modern times show that there is still something deeply wrong.  This is part of the New Covenant that we are not doing well to uphold, IMO.  So if the Abraham-Isaac-Jacob thing was the Daddy, the Three Mothers would be the counterpoint in my story.  I had looked for a likely trio of females that I could tie the three goddesses from the Quran to, since they were also involved with the Satan such that their names show up in the Quran.

So although I don't claim they are the actual Three Mothers, they are a distant echo across Millennnia.  I just happend to be in a place I could pick up the signal.  This also brings new themes, because one of them is the Moon Goddess.  But also birds in general, as the mosaics of the Churches in Petra show many birds, and this keeps with my raven, and also all his "unclean" brethren, who are not under the Law of Moses.  But that as we know how it all ends when all of God's creatures are reconciled.  The "unclean" versus "clean" from the original covenant with Abraham carried on through the Dove/Messiah line.  But this split was for the Covenant people.  "Not what a man puts in his mouth that defiles a man, but what comes out of it." idea.  God hated Esau, but He loved and blessed him and his people.

What I have deliberately tried to steer clear from is anything that contradicts plain readings, or anything that would not fit in the Imom's worldview, which I'd chopped at the first millenium, thus ducking the schism, but not so some of the debates that led to the split in the Orthodox Catholic Church.  Like the Mecca/Medina split and the Pharisaic/Christian split, there are very interesting volumes coming up as I use the platform to revisit these from the perspective of the Imom.

But I'll admit it.  I was suduced by the "Islamic Dilemma" in that the answer to it is obvious, which is to accept the previous scriptures.

But without the Holy Spirit, the Quran doesn't make any sense.  With the Spirit, it reads very plainly.  But it's not like the SIN has it, at all.  Many have abandoned the hadith for a more Quran-only approach, but then most of the religion goes away, and especially the parts that are particularly disgusting.  But in no way all of them.  But those troublesome parts are after his wife of 25 years dies, and his uncle who had raised him and had served as a father figure and was a respected leader of Banu Hashim.  Without Abu Talib, and his replacement (not fond of Muhammad and his companions) Muhammad was exposed to persecution, and then his wife dies.

The life that Muhammad began and continued throughout the rest of his life would be what Islam became based upon.  The Meccan surahs then just became fillers, and the bandit warlord hyper-sexualized Muhammad was all of the later days.  Especially after the Hijra, when he was principally dealing with Jewish tribes.  75% of the population of the area at the time was Christian, but of the 25% remaining, Muhammad found an economy of them at Medina.  This radical turn from traditional family and stability to schizoid berzerker with an outsized libido cannot be overstated.  We were supposed to be following the story.  Everyone around Muhammad would have been along for the ride or bailed out when things got weird.  There is record of people around him converting or hiding their Christianity.

We can't really talk about Islam without talking about the radical departure from the themes of Muhammad's life before 619CE, and what happened thereafter, including the history of the Quran as a book, and the important early writings about Muhammad and his recital.

What is found is a very fluid early history and then later codification of source material from which kings could effectively rule.  Being a hybrid system, the theology and politics served each other as necessary to accomplish political ends.  Muhammad himself would give fire and brimstone speeches to those who were not willing to get up and go fight.  This is only part of what makes the religion so dangerous.  I have an opinion that many won't care for, but I think Jews co-opted Islam from the beginning, and likely is still an outsized influence on it today.

Matthew is such a beautiful example of the scenario.  Jews had long history of surviving as a people far from their homeland, and developed skills that allowed them to operate in the gaps.  By dehumanizing those who were not Jewish, and now permanently without a Temple (unless they come to Christ), they have created their own morality of the chosen people, and other everyone else.  Then the pattern is to split the everyone else into opposing teams and have them war with each other.  We know this as the dialectic today.  There are infinite variations on the theme, and the darker arts of Talmudic and Kabbalistic Judaism infuses every aspect of Islam, Protestantism, and the symbolatry and degeneracy that are the hallmark of a professionally demoralized society.  Ours qualifies.

I'm not even really speaking out against it only the fact that we wouldn't be able to if we wanted.  I'm not mad.  I'm just not a chump.  We are on the verge of the Bible being classified as anti-semitic and Christians being classified as a hate group.  You think I'm kidding, but I'm not.  At some point Christians will have to choose their Savior over their lifestyles.  Most are too tapped into the sin culture to transcend to a position to consider what is going on a level or two above the din and trance of ritualized life.  And without a transcendant worldview that has knowledge that decodes and provides meaning for the longer arcs and most consequential decisions in history, we are herd animals driven from corral to corral with our own vehicles and fuel.

And I'm not speaking against order at all.  The most orderly societies end up being the most homogenous.  We've been subject to a forced integration that would have likely been fine if immigration had been more controlled and the expectations on immigrants had been different.  But that's not how it all went down, and ultimately it is everyone's problem.  We can blame our favorite opponents, but that doesn't really help.  We're all being frog-marched around and crowd-controlled.  It's incredibly irritating once you notice.

That's where the crimestop kicks in:  

>‘Crimestop’ means the faculty of stopping short, as though by instinct, at the threshold of any dangerous thought. It includes the power of not grasping analogies, of failing to perceive logical errors, or misunderstanding the simplest arguments if they are inimical to [the powers that be]… and of being bored or repelled by any train of thought which is capable of leading in a heretical direction. ‘Crimestop’, in short, means protective stupidity.

We don't much talk about that anymore, but now that anti-Semitism seems to be on everyone's minds, we may have noticed how Crimestop is now being written into laws and college handbooks, and an overwhelming push to provide any shred of moral legitimacy to a horrible campaign towards the "Greater Israel Project" which even the name of the state was an unironic slight of Christians, but whose grace, and perhaps guilt allowed it to find appropriation alongside the Greek (LXX) word for a sacrifice completely immolated by fire.  Somehow, 2% of the population seems to occupy 98% of the conversations.  Ask yourself if that's 

So I've found myself, having made a broad stroke for the sake of the story I wanted to tell, at odds with everyone.  As such it should be completely doomed.  I chose a domain that happens to be at odds with the rest of the Abrahamic faiths, including many of those in its own splintered off groups.  I took what I thought was the easy way with the strictness of the early Orthodox Catholic Church.

I had gone back to the earliest parts of the Torah thinking to re-aquaint myself with the lay of the land as the original Abraham story played out.  I found a lot more than I wanted or needed.  And by reading from a position of maximum grace, which the Quran demands to be taken seriously at all, I came upon an interesting-enough thread that when I started stitching, I found stronger threads and a richer patchwork, such that the people and things I thought I picked rather at random became quite a rush of possibilities, especially once the latest Quranic scholarship had revealed.

I feel like there are some who are on the brink of the hermeneutic I adopted, and I have as yet heard a better one.  The part that everyone seems to miss is that the legend of Muhammad and the text of the Quran don't even really need any historical linkage.  Because Islam was formed, like any religion, over the course of decades and centuries after the founding events.  Anyone determined to remain Muslim based on the "miracle" of the Quran should not look into the history of the formation of the canonical and variant versions.  I'm not saying whatever that document was when Uthman codified it isn't the Quran.  All of them are close enough for me.  Same with the Bible.  I've taken a "textus receptus" mode.  If we take perfect preservation off the table, which only Islam can't seem to let go of that polemic.  It's pure projection because their own religion's history is so embarrassing on that front, and gets moreso the more we learn about the pre-Muhammad period from the many accounts that exist outside of Islam, by historians and Church fathers and the like.

Let's call it an open reading of the Scriptures, where we don't do all the weird henpecking about words and verses here and there. https://youtube.com/clip/UgkxZTEjsA91s0CH_9JlnB-oGtNnDfGzjPvH?si=ryrNdwJ3JRWg_qnc

And this is hammered in Islam, that the Quran is a "recitation."  Jews have this same tradition.  And manuscripts were very expensive and rare, and were used for conducting worship services as lectionary, hymnal, liturgy etc. use, not for the sort of study that massive distribution and literacy brought about.

I stuck with the Petra idea as a sort of strawman.  I don't believe that it ultimately matters where Muhammad's star grew bright.  I like Petra because it is a nice bridge into the New Testament in a geographically meaningful way.  If there'd been more evidence of the Standard Islamic Narrative, there wouldn't be room to theorize about Muhammad in 7th Century Arabia.  Most of what is known about early Muhammad is easy to be taken as a given.  I'm trying to stay as generous to the different traditions as possible, but we're going to look at history in chronological order to begin with.

Here's what was available at the time of Muhammad according to Grok 3: 

>In 7th-century Petra, the most likely biblical manuscripts available were:
>>Greek Septuagint and New Testament portions (Gospels, Psalms), used by Byzantine Christians.

>>Syriac Peshitta, especially Old Testament books and the 22-book New Testament, via Syriac trade or clergy.

>>Hebrew scrolls (Torah, Prophets), if Jewish traders were present, though less probable.

>>Oral Arabic translations, as precursors to later written texts, among local Christians.

>>These would likely be codices or fragments in churches or private hands, reflecting Petra’s Christian heritage and regional connections. For deeper research, explore Syriac manuscript catalogs (e.g., British Library) or archaeological reports on Petra’s Byzantine churches.


